<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_ot_and_tools">
    <title>DITA OT and tools</title>
    <conbody>
        <p></p>
        <section id="section_i1j_tzv_vyb">
            <title>DITA Open Toolkit 1.8</title>
            <p>This document describes the DITA Open Toolkit project—what the project is, and how to
                use the site.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_k1j_tzv_vyb"><title>What is the DITA Open Toolkit?</title><p>The DITA
                Open Toolkit, or DITA-OT for short, is a set of Java-based, open source tools that
                provide processing for DITA maps and topic content. You can download the OT and
                install it for free on your computer to get started with topic-based writing and
                publishing. The DITA-OT is licensed under the <xref
                    href="http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.php" format="html"
                    scope="external">CPL 1.0</xref> and <xref
                    href="http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0" format="html" scope="external"
                    >Apache 2.0</xref> open source licenses.</p><b>Note:</b> While the DITA Standard
            itself is owned and developed by OASIS, the DITA Open Toolkit is an independent, open
            source implementation of the standard.<p>Key output formats for the toolkit
                include:</p><ul id="ul_l1j_tzv_vyb">
                <li>XHTML</li>
                <li>PDF (formerly known as PDF2)</li>
                <li>ODT (Open Document Format)</li>
                <li>Eclipse Help</li>
                <li>TocJS (XHTML with a JavaScript frameset)</li>
                <li>HTML Help</li>
                <li>Java Help</li>
                <li>Eclipse Content (normalized DITA plus Eclipse project files)</li>
                <li>Word RTF (with some limitations)</li>
                <li>Docbook</li>
                <li>Troff</li>
            </ul></section>
        <section id="section_m1j_tzv_vyb">
            <title>Toolkit documentation</title>
            <p>There are two primary sources for documentation about the toolkit.</p>
            <p>Stable documentation about toolkit usage, parameters, and project management can be
                found on this page, using the navigation panel on the left.</p>
            <p>New information about the latest toolkit builds, plans for the next release, and
                other changing information can be found on the DITA-OT landing page at the
                dita.xml.org site (link below). That site also contains the release notes for all
                upcoming and previous releases</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
